# Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours

**Source:** https://www.iccr-cancer.org/datasets/published-datasets/head-neck/ear/

**Downloads:**
- [ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Bookmarked guide- 1 MB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/ICCR-Ear-Temporal-Bone-2nd-ed-v-2.0-bookmark.pdf)
- [ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Hyperlinked guide- 3320 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/ICCR-Ear-Temporal-Bone-2nd-ed-v2.0-hyperlink.pdf)
- [1st edition](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/ICCR-Ear-v1-Bookmarked.pdf)

---

## Overview

Datasets Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours

## Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours

Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Scope The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of the ear and temporal bone. It includes only primary tumours of the external auditory canal, middle and inner ear, including both benign and malignant entities (specifically due to anatomic confines and management alternatives which may require significant, destructive or disfiguring surgery). By definition, all malignancies of the external ear (pinna, concha, scaphoid, lobe, etc., such as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), basal cell carcinoma, pleomorphic dermal sarcoma, Merkel cell carcinoma and melanoma) are separately covered by the ICCR Skin Datasets. Primary parotid gland malignancies with direct extension in to the ear canal are excluded; the ICCR Carcinomas of the major salivary glands dataset should be used. Haematolymphoid neoplasms are also excluded from this dataset. Neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. For bilateral tumours, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour. This dataset is intended for use for primary tumour resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 3320 KB ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Dataset on Word - 7368 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymphovascular invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Perineural invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Low H, Magliocca K, Sandison A, Helliwell T (2024). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-53-5. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Sandison A, Wenig BM (2018). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-22-4. Read more on the Ear and temporal bone tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of ear and temporal bone tumours: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Gupta R, Sandison A, Wenig BM, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):593-602. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0415-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Ear and temporal bone tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Ruta Gupta, Australia Hubert Low, Australia Kelly Magliocca, USA Ann Sandison, UK Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours
Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours

## Scope

The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of the ear and temporal bone. It includes only primary tumours of the external auditory canal, middle and inner ear, including both benign and malignant entities (specifically due to anatomic confines and management alternatives which may require significant, destructive or disfiguring surgery). By definition, all malignancies of the external ear (pinna, concha, scaphoid, lobe, etc., such as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), basal cell carcinoma, pleomorphic dermal sarcoma, Merkel cell carcinoma and melanoma) are separately covered by the ICCR Skin Datasets. Primary parotid gland malignancies with direct extension in to the ear canal are excluded; the ICCR Carcinomas of the major salivary glands dataset should be used. Haematolymphoid neoplasms are also excluded from this dataset. Neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. For bilateral tumours, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour. This dataset is intended for use for primary tumour resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable.
The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of the ear and temporal bone. It includes only primary tumours of the external auditory canal, middle and inner ear, including both benign and malignant entities (specifically due to anatomic confines and management alternatives which may require significant, destructive or disfiguring surgery).
By definition, all malignancies of the external ear (pinna, concha, scaphoid, lobe, etc., such as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), basal cell carcinoma, pleomorphic dermal sarcoma, Merkel cell carcinoma and melanoma) are separately covered by the ICCR Skin Datasets. Primary parotid gland malignancies with direct extension in to the ear canal are excluded; the ICCR Carcinomas of the major salivary glands dataset should be used. Haematolymphoid neoplasms are also excluded from this dataset.
Neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable.
For bilateral tumours, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour.
This dataset is intended for use for primary tumour resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable.
ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 3320 KB ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Dataset on Word - 7368 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymphovascular invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Perineural invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Low H, Magliocca K, Sandison A, Helliwell T (2024). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-53-5. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Sandison A, Wenig BM (2018). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-22-4. Read more on the Ear and temporal bone tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of ear and temporal bone tumours: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Gupta R, Sandison A, Wenig BM, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):593-602. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0415-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Ear and temporal bone tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Ruta Gupta, Australia Hubert Low, Australia Kelly Magliocca, USA Ann Sandison, UK Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 3320 KB ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Dataset on Word - 7368 KB
ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Bookmarked guide - 1 MB
ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 3320 KB
ICCR Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Dataset on Word - 7368 KB

## Publication History

These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymphovascular invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Perineural invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Low H, Magliocca K, Sandison A, Helliwell T (2024). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-53-5. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Sandison A, Wenig BM (2018). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-22-4. Read more on the Ear and temporal bone tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of ear and temporal bone tumours: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Gupta R, Sandison A, Wenig BM, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):593-602. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0415-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymphovascular invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Perineural invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Low H, Magliocca K, Sandison A, Helliwell T (2024). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-53-5. 1st edition – September 2018
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP).
2nd edition – July 2024
Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
• Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymphovascular invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Perineural invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Low H, Magliocca K, Sandison A, Helliwell T (2024). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-53-5.
1st edition – September 2018
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Gupta R, Sandison A, Wenig BM (2018). Ear and Temporal Bone Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-22-4.
Read more on the Ear and temporal bone tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of ear and temporal bone tumours: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Gupta R, Sandison A, Wenig BM, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):593-602. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0415-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​

## Expert Committee

The 2nd edition of the dataset for Ear and temporal bone tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Ruta Gupta, Australia Hubert Low, Australia Kelly Magliocca, USA Ann Sandison, UK Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
The 2nd edition of the dataset for Ear and temporal bone tumours was developed by the following international team:
Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA
ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Ruta Gupta, Australia Hubert Low, Australia Kelly Magliocca, USA Ann Sandison, UK
Ruta Gupta, Australia
Hubert Low, Australia
Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858 ©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858

## Contact

E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858
E admin@iccr-cancer.org
©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
This website requires Javascript for optimum viewing purposes. Please enable javascript in your browser.
It appears you're using an old version of Internet Explorer for safer and optimum browsing experience please upgrade your browser.

