# Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea

**Source:** https://www.iccr-cancer.org/datasets/published-datasets/head-neck/larynx/

**Downloads:**
- [ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Bookmarked guide- 1 MB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/ICCR-Carcinoma-Larynx-2nd-ed-v2.0-bookmarked.pdf)
- [ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Hyperlinked guide- 3315 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/ICCR-Carcinoma-Larynx-2nd-ed-v2.0-hyperlinked.pdf)
- [1st edition](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/ICCR-Larynx-v1-Bookmarked.pdf)

---

## Overview

Datasets Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea

## Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea

Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Scope The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of invasive epithelial malignancies of the larynx, hypopharynx and trachea. Salivary-type malignancies arising from minor mucoserous glands of the hypopharynx and larynx should be recorded in this dataset. Mucosal melanoma is presented in a separate ICCR dataset. Lymphomas and sarcomas are not included. Malignancies arising at other sites in the head and neck region, and neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets which may be used, as appropriate, in conjunction with this dataset. Where more than one anatomically or histologically distinct primary tumour occur, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour. This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically but some data items may be not applicable or not assessable. ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Hyperlinked guide - 3315 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Dataset in Word - 9810 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Neodjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Zidar N, Bal M, Chernock RD, Dahlstrom JE, Perez-Ordonez B, Strojan P, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-46-7. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Helliwell T, Chernock R, Dahlstrom JE, Gale N, McHugh J, Perez-Ordonez B, Roland N, Zidar N, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-17-0. Read more on the Carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for reporting of carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea: Explanations and recommendations of the Guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Helliwell T, Chernock R, Dahlstrom J, Gale N, McHugh J, Perez-Ordonez B, Roland N, Zidar N, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):432-438. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0419-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea was developed by the following international team: Chair – Nina Zidar, Slovenia Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative and domain expert – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Munita Bal, India Rebecca Chernock, USA Jane Dahlstrom, Australia Bayardo Perez-Ordonez, Canada Primož Strojan, Slovenia Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea
Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea

## Scope

The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of invasive epithelial malignancies of the larynx, hypopharynx and trachea. Salivary-type malignancies arising from minor mucoserous glands of the hypopharynx and larynx should be recorded in this dataset. Mucosal melanoma is presented in a separate ICCR dataset. Lymphomas and sarcomas are not included. Malignancies arising at other sites in the head and neck region, and neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets which may be used, as appropriate, in conjunction with this dataset. Where more than one anatomically or histologically distinct primary tumour occur, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour. This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically but some data items may be not applicable or not assessable.
The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of invasive epithelial malignancies of the larynx, hypopharynx and trachea. Salivary-type malignancies arising from minor mucoserous glands of the hypopharynx and larynx should be recorded in this dataset.
Mucosal melanoma is presented in a separate ICCR dataset. Lymphomas and sarcomas are not included. Malignancies arising at other sites in the head and neck region, and neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets which may be used, as appropriate, in conjunction with this dataset.
Where more than one anatomically or histologically distinct primary tumour occur, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour.
This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically but some data items may be not applicable or not assessable.
ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Hyperlinked guide - 3315 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Dataset in Word - 9810 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Neodjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Zidar N, Bal M, Chernock RD, Dahlstrom JE, Perez-Ordonez B, Strojan P, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-46-7. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Helliwell T, Chernock R, Dahlstrom JE, Gale N, McHugh J, Perez-Ordonez B, Roland N, Zidar N, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-17-0. Read more on the Carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for reporting of carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea: Explanations and recommendations of the Guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Helliwell T, Chernock R, Dahlstrom J, Gale N, McHugh J, Perez-Ordonez B, Roland N, Zidar N, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):432-438. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0419-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea was developed by the following international team: Chair – Nina Zidar, Slovenia Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative and domain expert – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Munita Bal, India Rebecca Chernock, USA Jane Dahlstrom, Australia Bayardo Perez-Ordonez, Canada Primož Strojan, Slovenia Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Hyperlinked guide - 3315 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Dataset in Word - 9810 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Bookmarked guide - 1 MB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Hyperlinked guide - 3315 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Dataset in Word - 9810 KB

## Publication History

These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Neodjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Zidar N, Bal M, Chernock RD, Dahlstrom JE, Perez-Ordonez B, Strojan P, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-46-7. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Helliwell T, Chernock R, Dahlstrom JE, Gale N, McHugh J, Perez-Ordonez B, Roland N, Zidar N, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-17-0. Read more on the Carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for reporting of carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea: Explanations and recommendations of the Guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Helliwell T, Chernock R, Dahlstrom J, Gale N, McHugh J, Perez-Ordonez B, Roland N, Zidar N, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):432-438. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0419-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Neodjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Zidar N, Bal M, Chernock RD, Dahlstrom JE, Perez-Ordonez B, Strojan P, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-46-7. 1st edition – September 2018
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP).
2nd edition – July 2024
Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
• Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Neodjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Zidar N, Bal M, Chernock RD, Dahlstrom JE, Perez-Ordonez B, Strojan P, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-46-7.
1st edition – September 2018
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Helliwell T, Chernock R, Dahlstrom JE, Gale N, McHugh J, Perez-Ordonez B, Roland N, Zidar N, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Hypopharynx, Larynx and Trachea Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-17-0.
Read more on the Carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for reporting of carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea: Explanations and recommendations of the Guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Helliwell T, Chernock R, Dahlstrom J, Gale N, McHugh J, Perez-Ordonez B, Roland N, Zidar N, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):432-438. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0419-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​

## Expert Committee

The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea was developed by the following international team: Chair – Nina Zidar, Slovenia Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative and domain expert – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Munita Bal, India Rebecca Chernock, USA Jane Dahlstrom, Australia Bayardo Perez-Ordonez, Canada Primož Strojan, Slovenia Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the hypopharynx, larynx and trachea was developed by the following international team:
Chair – Nina Zidar, Slovenia Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative and domain expert – Tim Helliwell, UK
Chair – Nina Zidar, Slovenia
Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA
ICCR representative and domain expert – Tim Helliwell, UK
Munita Bal, India Rebecca Chernock, USA Jane Dahlstrom, Australia Bayardo Perez-Ordonez, Canada Primož Strojan, Slovenia
Rebecca Chernock, USA
Jane Dahlstrom, Australia
Bayardo Perez-Ordonez, Canada
Primož Strojan, Slovenia
Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858 ©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858

## Contact

E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858
E admin@iccr-cancer.org
©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
This website requires Javascript for optimum viewing purposes. Please enable javascript in your browser.
It appears you're using an old version of Internet Explorer for safer and optimum browsing experience please upgrade your browser.

