# Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck

**Source:** https://www.iccr-cancer.org/datasets/published-datasets/head-neck/mucosal/

**Downloads:**
- [ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Bookmarked guide- 6092 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/ICCR-Mucosal-Melanomas-2nd-ed-v2.0-bookmark.pdf)
- [ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Hyperlinked guide- 2666 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/ICCR-Mucosal-Melanomas-2nd-ed-v2.0-hyperlink.pdf)
- [1st edition](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/ICCR-Melanomas-v1-Bookmarked.pdf)

---

## Overview

Datasets Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck

## Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck

Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Scope The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of mucosal melanoma arising in the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, oral cavity, nasopharynx, oropharynx, larynx and hypopharynx. All other malignancies are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets, specifically cutaneous melanoma is separately reported. Direct extension of a cutaneous primary into a mucosal site should be excluded and would not be reported in this dataset. Metastatic melanoma to a head and neck mucosal site is also excluded. If there are overlapping sites, clinical centring of the tumour should determine the dataset to be completed. If a primary tumour extends to involve the contralateral side, the tumour is still considered a unifocal tumour, but involving multiple, contiguous sites. It should be noted that for limited biopsies the pathologist may not be able to complete all of the elements in the ICCR dataset. Neck lymph node dissections and excisions are dealt with in a separate dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Bookmarked guide - 6092 KB ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Hyperlinked guide - 2666 KB ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Dataset in Word - 1603 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a new element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Added a new element ‘Necrosis’. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Lymphovascular invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Perineural invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Post therapy changes’. • Added a new sub-element ‘Representative blocks for ancillary studies’. • Other minor updates were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Williams MD, Fitzpatrick S, Franchi A, Kakkar A, Patel S, Yamazaki N, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-48-1. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Franchi A, Helliwell T, Müller S, Williams MD (2018). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-25-5. ​ Read more on the Mucosal melanomas of the head and neck dataset from the journal article written by the dataset auth ors: Data Set for the Reporting of Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck: Explanations and Recommendations of the Guidelines From the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Williams MD, Franchi A, Helliwell T, Müller S, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):603-609. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0412-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Mucosal melanomas was developed by the following international team: Chair – Michelle Williams, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Sarah Fitzpatrick, USA Alessandro Franchi, Italy Aanchal Kakkar, India Sapna Patel, USA Naoya Yamazaki, Japan Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck
Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck

## Scope

The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of mucosal melanoma arising in the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, oral cavity, nasopharynx, oropharynx, larynx and hypopharynx. All other malignancies are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets, specifically cutaneous melanoma is separately reported.
Direct extension of a cutaneous primary into a mucosal site should be excluded and would not be reported in this dataset. Metastatic melanoma to a head and neck mucosal site is also excluded. If there are overlapping sites, clinical centring of the tumour should determine the dataset to be completed. If a primary tumour extends to involve the contralateral side, the tumour is still considered a unifocal tumour, but involving multiple, contiguous sites. It should be noted that for limited biopsies the pathologist may not be able to complete all of the elements in the ICCR dataset.
Neck lymph node dissections and excisions are dealt with in a separate dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable.
This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable.
ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Bookmarked guide - 6092 KB ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Hyperlinked guide - 2666 KB ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Dataset in Word - 1603 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a new element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Added a new element ‘Necrosis’. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Lymphovascular invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Perineural invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Post therapy changes’. • Added a new sub-element ‘Representative blocks for ancillary studies’. • Other minor updates were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Williams MD, Fitzpatrick S, Franchi A, Kakkar A, Patel S, Yamazaki N, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-48-1. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Franchi A, Helliwell T, Müller S, Williams MD (2018). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-25-5. ​ Read more on the Mucosal melanomas of the head and neck dataset from the journal article written by the dataset auth ors: Data Set for the Reporting of Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck: Explanations and Recommendations of the Guidelines From the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Williams MD, Franchi A, Helliwell T, Müller S, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):603-609. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0412-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Mucosal melanomas was developed by the following international team: Chair – Michelle Williams, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Sarah Fitzpatrick, USA Alessandro Franchi, Italy Aanchal Kakkar, India Sapna Patel, USA Naoya Yamazaki, Japan Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Bookmarked guide - 6092 KB ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Hyperlinked guide - 2666 KB ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Dataset in Word - 1603 KB
ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Bookmarked guide - 6092 KB
ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Hyperlinked guide - 2666 KB
ICCR Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Dataset in Word - 1603 KB

## Publication History

These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a new element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Added a new element ‘Necrosis’. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Lymphovascular invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Perineural invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Post therapy changes’. • Added a new sub-element ‘Representative blocks for ancillary studies’. • Other minor updates were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Williams MD, Fitzpatrick S, Franchi A, Kakkar A, Patel S, Yamazaki N, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-48-1. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Franchi A, Helliwell T, Müller S, Williams MD (2018). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-25-5. ​ Read more on the Mucosal melanomas of the head and neck dataset from the journal article written by the dataset auth ors: Data Set for the Reporting of Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck: Explanations and Recommendations of the Guidelines From the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Williams MD, Franchi A, Helliwell T, Müller S, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):603-609. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0412-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a new element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Added a new element ‘Necrosis’. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Lymphovascular invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Perineural invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Post therapy changes’. • Added a new sub-element ‘Representative blocks for ancillary studies’. • Other minor updates were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Williams MD, Fitzpatrick S, Franchi A, Kakkar A, Patel S, Yamazaki N, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-48-1. 1st edition – September 2018
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP).
2nd edition – July 2024
Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
• Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a new element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Added a new element ‘Necrosis’. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Lymphovascular invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Perineural invasion’. • Added a new element ‘Post therapy changes’. • Added a new sub-element ‘Representative blocks for ancillary studies’. • Other minor updates were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Williams MD, Fitzpatrick S, Franchi A, Kakkar A, Patel S, Yamazaki N, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-48-1.
1st edition – September 2018
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Franchi A, Helliwell T, Müller S, Williams MD (2018). Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-25-5.
​ Read more on the Mucosal melanomas of the head and neck dataset from the journal article written by the dataset auth ors: Data Set for the Reporting of Mucosal Melanomas of the Head and Neck: Explanations and Recommendations of the Guidelines From the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Williams MD, Franchi A, Helliwell T, Müller S, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):603-609. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0412-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.

## Expert Committee

The 2nd edition of the dataset for Mucosal melanomas was developed by the following international team: Chair – Michelle Williams, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Sarah Fitzpatrick, USA Alessandro Franchi, Italy Aanchal Kakkar, India Sapna Patel, USA Naoya Yamazaki, Japan Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
The 2nd edition of the dataset for Mucosal melanomas was developed by the following international team:
Chair – Michelle Williams, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Chair – Michelle Williams, USA
Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA
ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Sarah Fitzpatrick, USA Alessandro Franchi, Italy Aanchal Kakkar, India Sapna Patel, USA Naoya Yamazaki, Japan
Sarah Fitzpatrick, USA
Alessandro Franchi, Italy
Aanchal Kakkar, India
Naoya Yamazaki, Japan
Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858 ©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858

## Contact

E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858
E admin@iccr-cancer.org
©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
This website requires Javascript for optimum viewing purposes. Please enable javascript in your browser.
It appears you're using an old version of Internet Explorer for safer and optimum browsing experience please upgrade your browser.

