# Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses

**Source:** https://www.iccr-cancer.org/datasets/published-datasets/head-neck/nasal-cavity/

**Downloads:**
- [ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Bookmarked guide- 6055 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/ICCR-Nasal-Cavity-2nd-v2.0-bookmarked.pdf)
- [ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Hyperlinked guide- 3234 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/ICCR-Nasal-Cavity-2nd-v2.0-hyperlinked.pdf)
- [1st edition](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/ICCR-Nasal-Cavity-v1-bookmarked.pdf)

---

## Overview

Datasets Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses

## Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses

Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Scope The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of mucosal malignancies originating in the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. Malignancies at the border of skull base are included. Neuroendocrine neoplasms are also included. Melanomas, lymphomas, sarcomas, olfactory neuroblastoma and haematolymphoid tumours are not included. Bone and soft tissue tumours are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate ICCR dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Bookmarked guide - 6055 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Hyperlinked guide - 3234 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Dataset in Word - 2022 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Previous therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Removed the ‘Tumour focality’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone/cartilage invasion’. • Updated the ‘Margin status’ element. • Removed the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Added a new element ‘Precursor lesion(s)’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bishop JA, Agaimy A, Bal M, Franchi A, Gallia GL, Kahn S, Rooper L, Stelow E, Weinreb I, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-52-8. 1st edition – September 2018 ​ To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Franchi A, Bishop JA, Coleman H, Flucke U, Licitra L, Llorente JL, Stelow E, Toner M, Weinreb I, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-20-0. Read more on the Carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Franchi A, Bishop JA, Coleman H, Flucke U, Licitra LF, Pendás JLL, Stelow EB, Toner M, Weinreb I, Wenig BM, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):424-431. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0404-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses was developed by the following international team: Chair – Justin Bishop, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Abbas Agaimy, Germany Munita Bal, India Alessandro Franchi, Italy Gary Gallia, USA Saad Kahn, USA Lisa Rooper, USA Edward Stelow, USA Ilan Weinreb, Canada Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses
Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses

## Scope

The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of mucosal malignancies originating in the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. Malignancies at the border of skull base are included. Neuroendocrine neoplasms are also included. Melanomas, lymphomas, sarcomas, olfactory neuroblastoma and haematolymphoid tumours are not included. Bone and soft tissue tumours are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate ICCR dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable.
The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and biopsy specimens of mucosal malignancies originating in the nasal cavities and paranasal sinuses. Malignancies at the border of skull base are included. Neuroendocrine neoplasms are also included.
Melanomas, lymphomas, sarcomas, olfactory neuroblastoma and haematolymphoid tumours are not included. Bone and soft tissue tumours are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets.
Neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate ICCR dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable.
This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable.
ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Bookmarked guide - 6055 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Hyperlinked guide - 3234 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Dataset in Word - 2022 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Previous therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Removed the ‘Tumour focality’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone/cartilage invasion’. • Updated the ‘Margin status’ element. • Removed the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Added a new element ‘Precursor lesion(s)’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bishop JA, Agaimy A, Bal M, Franchi A, Gallia GL, Kahn S, Rooper L, Stelow E, Weinreb I, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-52-8. 1st edition – September 2018 ​ To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Franchi A, Bishop JA, Coleman H, Flucke U, Licitra L, Llorente JL, Stelow E, Toner M, Weinreb I, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-20-0. Read more on the Carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Franchi A, Bishop JA, Coleman H, Flucke U, Licitra LF, Pendás JLL, Stelow EB, Toner M, Weinreb I, Wenig BM, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):424-431. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0404-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses was developed by the following international team: Chair – Justin Bishop, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Abbas Agaimy, Germany Munita Bal, India Alessandro Franchi, Italy Gary Gallia, USA Saad Kahn, USA Lisa Rooper, USA Edward Stelow, USA Ilan Weinreb, Canada Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Bookmarked guide - 6055 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Hyperlinked guide - 3234 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Dataset in Word - 2022 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Bookmarked guide - 6055 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Hyperlinked guide - 3234 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Dataset in Word - 2022 KB

## Publication History

These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Previous therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Removed the ‘Tumour focality’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone/cartilage invasion’. • Updated the ‘Margin status’ element. • Removed the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Added a new element ‘Precursor lesion(s)’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bishop JA, Agaimy A, Bal M, Franchi A, Gallia GL, Kahn S, Rooper L, Stelow E, Weinreb I, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-52-8. 1st edition – September 2018 ​ To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Franchi A, Bishop JA, Coleman H, Flucke U, Licitra L, Llorente JL, Stelow E, Toner M, Weinreb I, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-20-0. Read more on the Carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Franchi A, Bishop JA, Coleman H, Flucke U, Licitra LF, Pendás JLL, Stelow EB, Toner M, Weinreb I, Wenig BM, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):424-431. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0404-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Previous therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Removed the ‘Tumour focality’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone/cartilage invasion’. • Updated the ‘Margin status’ element. • Removed the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Added a new element ‘Precursor lesion(s)’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bishop JA, Agaimy A, Bal M, Franchi A, Gallia GL, Kahn S, Rooper L, Stelow E, Weinreb I, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-52-8. 1st edition – September 2018
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP).
2nd edition – July 2024
Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
• Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’, which incorporates the original element ‘Previous therapy’. • Updated the ‘Operative procedure’ element. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Removed the ‘Tumour focality’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Added a new element ‘Extent of invasion’, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone/cartilage invasion’. • Updated the ‘Margin status’ element. • Removed the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Added a new element ‘Precursor lesion(s)’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bishop JA, Agaimy A, Bal M, Franchi A, Gallia GL, Kahn S, Rooper L, Stelow E, Weinreb I, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-52-8.
1st edition – September 2018
​ To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Franchi A, Bishop JA, Coleman H, Flucke U, Licitra L, Llorente JL, Stelow E, Toner M, Weinreb I, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinuses Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-20-0.
Read more on the Carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Franchi A, Bishop JA, Coleman H, Flucke U, Licitra LF, Pendás JLL, Stelow EB, Toner M, Weinreb I, Wenig BM, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):424-431. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0404-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.

## Expert Committee

The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses was developed by the following international team: Chair – Justin Bishop, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Abbas Agaimy, Germany Munita Bal, India Alessandro Franchi, Italy Gary Gallia, USA Saad Kahn, USA Lisa Rooper, USA Edward Stelow, USA Ilan Weinreb, Canada Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses was developed by the following international team:
Chair – Justin Bishop, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Chair – Justin Bishop, USA
Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA
ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Abbas Agaimy, Germany Munita Bal, India Alessandro Franchi, Italy Gary Gallia, USA Saad Kahn, USA Lisa Rooper, USA Edward Stelow, USA Ilan Weinreb, Canada
Abbas Agaimy, Germany
Alessandro Franchi, Italy
Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858 ©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858

## Contact

E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858
E admin@iccr-cancer.org
©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
This website requires Javascript for optimum viewing purposes. Please enable javascript in your browser.
It appears you're using an old version of Internet Explorer for safer and optimum browsing experience please upgrade your browser.

