# Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens

**Source:** https://www.iccr-cancer.org/datasets/published-datasets/head-neck/nodal-excisions/

**Downloads:**
- [ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Bookmarked guide- 1 MB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/ICCR-Nodal-and-Neck-2nd-ed-v2.1-Bookmark.pdf)
- [ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Hyperlinked guide- 3780 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/ICCR-Nodal-and-Neck-2nd-ed-v2.1-Hyperlink.pdf)
- [1st edition](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/ICCR-Nodal-and-Neck-v1-Bookmarked.pdf)

---

## Overview

Datasets Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens

## Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens

Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens Scope The dataset has been developed for the reporting of lymph node resections from patients with primary carcinomas and mucosal melanomas of the head and neck. This excludes nodal resections for lymphoma and sarcomas. It is not intended for use in reporting lymph node core biopsy or fine needle aspirations. Carcinomas covered by the dataset include sinonasal tract, nasopharnx, oral cavity, oropharynx, hypopharynx, larynx and trachea, salivary glands (major and minor), and ear and temporal bone. Neuroendocrine tumours (grade 1, 2 and 3) and neuroendocrine carcinomas are also included in this dataset, along with musical melanoma and cutaneous carcinomas (except Merkel cell carcinoma). For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. This dataset is to be used in conjunction with other ICCR datasets in the Head and Neck Series. Lymph node excisional biopsies or neck dissections may precede, accompany, or follow the biopsy or resection of a primary tumour. Concurrent reporting of the lymph node and primary tumour dataset elements – ideally in the same report – is preferable, as it provides clinicians with the most comprehensive information for tumour stage categorisation. ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 3780 KB ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Dataset in Word - 4 MB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymph node status’ element. • Added a new element ‘Sentinel lymph node biopsy’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bullock M, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Katabi N, Taylor SM, Thavaraj S, Williams MD, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-49-8. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bullock M, Beitler JJ, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Hunt J, Katabi N, Sloan P, Taylor SM, Williams MD, Thompson LDR (2018). Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head & Neck Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-24-8. Read more on the Nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours: Explanations and recommendations of the Guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Bullock M, Beitler J, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Hunt J, Katabi N, Sloan P, Taylor SM, Williams M, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):452-462. doi: 10.5858/arpa.201 8-0421-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair – Martin Bullock, Canada Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Diane Carlson, USA Isabel Fonseca, Portugal Nora Katabi, USA S Mark Taylor, Canada Selvam Thavaraj, UK Michelle Williams, USA Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens
Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens

## Scope

The dataset has been developed for the reporting of lymph node resections from patients with primary carcinomas and mucosal melanomas of the head and neck. This excludes nodal resections for lymphoma and sarcomas. It is not intended for use in reporting lymph node core biopsy or fine needle aspirations. Carcinomas covered by the dataset include sinonasal tract, nasopharnx, oral cavity, oropharynx, hypopharynx, larynx and trachea, salivary glands (major and minor), and ear and temporal bone. Neuroendocrine tumours (grade 1, 2 and 3) and neuroendocrine carcinomas are also included in this dataset, along with musical melanoma and cutaneous carcinomas (except Merkel cell carcinoma). For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable.
This dataset is to be used in conjunction with other ICCR datasets in the Head and Neck Series. Lymph node excisional biopsies or neck dissections may precede, accompany, or follow the biopsy or resection of a primary tumour. Concurrent reporting of the lymph node and primary tumour dataset elements – ideally in the same report – is preferable, as it provides clinicians with the most comprehensive information for tumour stage categorisation.
ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 3780 KB ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Dataset in Word - 4 MB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymph node status’ element. • Added a new element ‘Sentinel lymph node biopsy’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bullock M, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Katabi N, Taylor SM, Thavaraj S, Williams MD, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-49-8. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bullock M, Beitler JJ, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Hunt J, Katabi N, Sloan P, Taylor SM, Williams MD, Thompson LDR (2018). Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head & Neck Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-24-8. Read more on the Nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours: Explanations and recommendations of the Guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Bullock M, Beitler J, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Hunt J, Katabi N, Sloan P, Taylor SM, Williams M, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):452-462. doi: 10.5858/arpa.201 8-0421-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair – Martin Bullock, Canada Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Diane Carlson, USA Isabel Fonseca, Portugal Nora Katabi, USA S Mark Taylor, Canada Selvam Thavaraj, UK Michelle Williams, USA Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Bookmarked guide - 1 MB ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 3780 KB ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Dataset in Word - 4 MB
ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Bookmarked guide - 1 MB
ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 3780 KB
ICCR Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Dataset in Word - 4 MB

## Publication History

These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymph node status’ element. • Added a new element ‘Sentinel lymph node biopsy’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bullock M, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Katabi N, Taylor SM, Thavaraj S, Williams MD, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-49-8. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bullock M, Beitler JJ, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Hunt J, Katabi N, Sloan P, Taylor SM, Williams MD, Thompson LDR (2018). Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head & Neck Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-24-8. Read more on the Nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours: Explanations and recommendations of the Guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Bullock M, Beitler J, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Hunt J, Katabi N, Sloan P, Taylor SM, Williams M, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):452-462. doi: 10.5858/arpa.201 8-0421-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP).
Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024
2nd edition – July 2024
Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
• Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Lymph node status’ element. • Added a new element ‘Sentinel lymph node biopsy’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bullock M, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Katabi N, Taylor SM, Thavaraj S, Williams MD, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head and Neck Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-49-8.
1st edition – September 2018
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Bullock M, Beitler JJ, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Hunt J, Katabi N, Sloan P, Taylor SM, Williams MD, Thompson LDR (2018). Nodal Excisions and Neck Dissection Specimens for Head & Neck Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-24-8.
Read more on the Nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours: Explanations and recommendations of the Guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Bullock M, Beitler J, Carlson DL, Fonseca I, Hunt J, Katabi N, Sloan P, Taylor SM, Williams M, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):452-462. doi: 10.5858/arpa.201 8-0421-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​
8-0421-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​

## Expert Committee

The 2nd edition of the dataset for Nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair – Martin Bullock, Canada Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Diane Carlson, USA Isabel Fonseca, Portugal Nora Katabi, USA S Mark Taylor, Canada Selvam Thavaraj, UK Michelle Williams, USA Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
The 2nd edition of the dataset for Nodal excisions and neck dissection specimens for head and neck tumours was developed by the following international team:
Chair – Martin Bullock, Canada Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Chair – Martin Bullock, Canada
Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA
ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Diane Carlson, USA Isabel Fonseca, Portugal Nora Katabi, USA S Mark Taylor, Canada Selvam Thavaraj, UK Michelle Williams, USA
Isabel Fonseca, Portugal
S Mark Taylor, Canada
Michelle Williams, USA
Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858 ©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858

## Contact

E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858
E admin@iccr-cancer.org
©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
This website requires Javascript for optimum viewing purposes. Please enable javascript in your browser.
It appears you're using an old version of Internet Explorer for safer and optimum browsing experience please upgrade your browser.

