# Malignant Odontogenic Tumours

**Source:** https://www.iccr-cancer.org/datasets/published-datasets/head-neck/odontogenic/

**Downloads:**
- [ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Bookmarked guide- 7040 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/ICCR-Odontogenic-2nd-ed-V2.0-Bookmarked.pdf)
- [ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Hyperlinked guide- 2771 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/ICCR-Odontogenic-2nd-ed-v2.0-hyperlinked.pdf)
- [1st edition](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/ICCR-Odontogenic-v1-Bookmarked.pdf)

---

## Overview

Datasets Malignant Odontogenic Tumours

## Malignant Odontogenic Tumours

Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Scope The dataset has been developed for the reporting of excision biopsy and resection specimens for malignant primary odontogenic (carcinoma and sarcoma) tumours. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. Malignant neoplasms arising in the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, oral cavity, salivary glands, trachea, pharynx and larynx are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Non-odontogenic bone, soft tissue and lymphoma protocols are also dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. In addition, neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate ICCR dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections. ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Bookmarked guide - 7040 KB ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 2771 KB ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Dataset in Word - 3806 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Gomez R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson MS, Wright J, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-50-4. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell E, Baumhoer D, Carlos R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson M, Slater L, Slootweg PJ, Speight P, Wright J, Thompson LDR (2018). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-23-1. Read more on the Malignant odontogenic tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of malignant odontogenic tumors: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Slootweg PJ, Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Carlos R, Hunter KD, Taylor AM, Richardson MS, Slater L, Speight PM, Wright J, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):587-592. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0417-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Malignant odontogenic tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair – Edward Odell, UK Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Daniel Baumhoer, Switzerland Ricardo Gomez, Brail Keith Hunter, UK Adalberto Mosqueda-Taylor, Mexico Mary Richardson, USA John Wright, USA Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Malignant Odontogenic Tumours
Malignant Odontogenic Tumours

## Scope

The dataset has been developed for the reporting of excision biopsy and resection specimens for malignant primary odontogenic (carcinoma and sarcoma) tumours. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. Malignant neoplasms arising in the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, oral cavity, salivary glands, trachea, pharynx and larynx are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Non-odontogenic bone, soft tissue and lymphoma protocols are also dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. In addition, neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate ICCR dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections.
The dataset has been developed for the reporting of excision biopsy and resection specimens for malignant primary odontogenic (carcinoma and sarcoma) tumours. For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. Malignant neoplasms arising in the nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, oral cavity, salivary glands, trachea, pharynx and larynx are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Non-odontogenic bone, soft tissue and lymphoma protocols are also dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. In addition, neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate ICCR dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable.
This dataset is intended for use for primary cancer resections.
ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Bookmarked guide - 7040 KB ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 2771 KB ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Dataset in Word - 3806 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Gomez R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson MS, Wright J, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-50-4. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell E, Baumhoer D, Carlos R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson M, Slater L, Slootweg PJ, Speight P, Wright J, Thompson LDR (2018). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-23-1. Read more on the Malignant odontogenic tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of malignant odontogenic tumors: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Slootweg PJ, Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Carlos R, Hunter KD, Taylor AM, Richardson MS, Slater L, Speight PM, Wright J, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):587-592. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0417-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Malignant odontogenic tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair – Edward Odell, UK Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Daniel Baumhoer, Switzerland Ricardo Gomez, Brail Keith Hunter, UK Adalberto Mosqueda-Taylor, Mexico Mary Richardson, USA John Wright, USA Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Bookmarked guide - 7040 KB ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 2771 KB ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Dataset in Word - 3806 KB
ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Bookmarked guide - 7040 KB
ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Hyperlinked guide - 2771 KB
ICCR Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Dataset in Word - 3806 KB

## Publication History

These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Gomez R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson MS, Wright J, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-50-4. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell E, Baumhoer D, Carlos R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson M, Slater L, Slootweg PJ, Speight P, Wright J, Thompson LDR (2018). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-23-1. Read more on the Malignant odontogenic tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of malignant odontogenic tumors: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Slootweg PJ, Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Carlos R, Hunter KD, Taylor AM, Richardson MS, Slater L, Speight PM, Wright J, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):587-592. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0417-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​​
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Gomez R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson MS, Wright J, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-50-4. 1st edition – September 2018
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP).
2nd edition – July 2024
Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
• Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Gomez R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson MS, Wright J, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-50-4.
1st edition – September 2018
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Odell E, Baumhoer D, Carlos R, Hunter KD, Mosqueda-Taylor A, Richardson M, Slater L, Slootweg PJ, Speight P, Wright J, Thompson LDR (2018). Malignant Odontogenic Tumours Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-23-1.
Read more on the Malignant odontogenic tumours dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of malignant odontogenic tumors: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting . Slootweg PJ, Odell EW, Baumhoer D, Carlos R, Hunter KD, Taylor AM, Richardson MS, Slater L, Speight PM, Wright J, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):587-592. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0417-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.​​

## Expert Committee

The 2nd edition of the dataset for Malignant odontogenic tumours was developed by the following international team: Chair – Edward Odell, UK Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Daniel Baumhoer, Switzerland Ricardo Gomez, Brail Keith Hunter, UK Adalberto Mosqueda-Taylor, Mexico Mary Richardson, USA John Wright, USA Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
The 2nd edition of the dataset for Malignant odontogenic tumours was developed by the following international team:
Chair – Edward Odell, UK Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Chair – Edward Odell, UK
Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA
ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Daniel Baumhoer, Switzerland Ricardo Gomez, Brail Keith Hunter, UK Adalberto Mosqueda-Taylor, Mexico Mary Richardson, USA John Wright, USA
Daniel Baumhoer, Switzerland
Adalberto Mosqueda-Taylor, Mexico
Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858 ©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858

## Contact

E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858
E admin@iccr-cancer.org
©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
This website requires Javascript for optimum viewing purposes. Please enable javascript in your browser.
It appears you're using an old version of Internet Explorer for safer and optimum browsing experience please upgrade your browser.

