# Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity

**Source:** https://www.iccr-cancer.org/datasets/published-datasets/head-neck/oral-cavity/

**Downloads:**
- [ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Bookmarked guide- 2 MB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/ICCR-Oral-Cavity-2nd-ed-v2.1-bookmarked.pdf)
- [ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Hyperlinked guide- 3056 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/ICCR-Oral-Cavity-2nd-ed-v2.1-hyperlinked.pdf)
- [1st edition](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/ICCR-Oral-Cavity-1st-ed-v1-1-bookmarked.pdf)

---

## Overview

Datasets Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity

## Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity

Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Scope The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and excisional biopsy specimens of malignancies of the oral cavity, including mucosal lip and tongue (mucosal carcinomas, minor salivary gland malignancies, and neuroendocrine tumours). For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. Incisional biopsies and other biopsy specimens are not included in this dataset. Mucosal melanoma, lymphomas and sarcomas are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. In addition, neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate ICCR dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. For additional independent (multicentric) tumours, complete a separate dataset for each. ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Bookmarked guide - 2 MB ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Hyperlinked guide - 3056 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Dataset in Word - 1 MB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024. Revision to ‘Depth of invasion’ commentary. 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information, which incorporates the original element ‘Neoadjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Updated the ‘Tumour dimensions’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Removed the ‘Response to neoadjuvant therapy’ element. • Added the ‘Extent of invasion element, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone invasion’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Day TA, Griffith CC, Magliocca KR, Mori T, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-45-0. Minor update to the 1st edition – Version 1.1 September 2018 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Boy S, Day TA, Magliocca K, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-19-4. Read more on the Carcinomas of the oral cavity dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of oral cavity carcinomas: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration of Cancer Reporting . Müller S, Boy SC, Day TA, Magliocca KR, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):439-446. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0411-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the oral cavity was developed by the following international team: Chair – Susan Müller, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Terry Day, USA Christopher Griffith, USA Kelly Magliocca, USA Taisuke Mori, Japan Mary Richardson, USA Philip Sloan, UK WM Tilakaratne, Sri Lanka Rosnah Zain, Malaysia Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity
Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity

## Scope

The dataset has been developed for the reporting of resection and excisional biopsy specimens of malignancies of the oral cavity, including mucosal lip and tongue (mucosal carcinomas, minor salivary gland malignancies, and neuroendocrine tumours). For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. Incisional biopsies and other biopsy specimens are not included in this dataset. Mucosal melanoma, lymphomas and sarcomas are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. In addition, neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate ICCR dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable.
For additional independent (multicentric) tumours, complete a separate dataset for each.
ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Bookmarked guide - 2 MB ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Hyperlinked guide - 3056 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Dataset in Word - 1 MB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024. Revision to ‘Depth of invasion’ commentary. 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information, which incorporates the original element ‘Neoadjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Updated the ‘Tumour dimensions’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Removed the ‘Response to neoadjuvant therapy’ element. • Added the ‘Extent of invasion element, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone invasion’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Day TA, Griffith CC, Magliocca KR, Mori T, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-45-0. Minor update to the 1st edition – Version 1.1 September 2018 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Boy S, Day TA, Magliocca K, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-19-4. Read more on the Carcinomas of the oral cavity dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of oral cavity carcinomas: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration of Cancer Reporting . Müller S, Boy SC, Day TA, Magliocca KR, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):439-446. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0411-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the oral cavity was developed by the following international team: Chair – Susan Müller, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Terry Day, USA Christopher Griffith, USA Kelly Magliocca, USA Taisuke Mori, Japan Mary Richardson, USA Philip Sloan, UK WM Tilakaratne, Sri Lanka Rosnah Zain, Malaysia Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Bookmarked guide - 2 MB ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Hyperlinked guide - 3056 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Dataset in Word - 1 MB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Bookmarked guide - 2 MB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Hyperlinked guide - 3056 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Dataset in Word - 1 MB

## Publication History

These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024. Revision to ‘Depth of invasion’ commentary. 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information, which incorporates the original element ‘Neoadjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Updated the ‘Tumour dimensions’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Removed the ‘Response to neoadjuvant therapy’ element. • Added the ‘Extent of invasion element, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone invasion’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Day TA, Griffith CC, Magliocca KR, Mori T, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-45-0. Minor update to the 1st edition – Version 1.1 September 2018 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Boy S, Day TA, Magliocca K, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-19-4. Read more on the Carcinomas of the oral cavity dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of oral cavity carcinomas: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration of Cancer Reporting . Müller S, Boy SC, Day TA, Magliocca KR, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):439-446. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0411-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024. Revision to ‘Depth of invasion’ commentary. 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information, which incorporates the original element ‘Neoadjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Updated the ‘Tumour dimensions’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Removed the ‘Response to neoadjuvant therapy’ element. • Added the ‘Extent of invasion element, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone invasion’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Day TA, Griffith CC, Magliocca KR, Mori T, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-45-0. Minor update to the 1st edition – Version 1.1 September 2018 1st edition – September 2018
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP).
Minor update to the 2nd edition – Version 2.1 July 2024. Revision to ‘Depth of invasion’ commentary.
2nd edition – July 2024
Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
• Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information, which incorporates the original element ‘Neoadjuvant therapy’. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Updated the ‘Tumour dimensions’ element. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Removed the ‘Response to neoadjuvant therapy’ element. • Added the ‘Extent of invasion element, which incorporates the original element ‘Bone invasion’. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Day TA, Griffith CC, Magliocca KR, Mori T, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Helliwell T, Thompson LDR (2024). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-45-0.
Minor update to the 1st edition – Version 1.1 September 2018
1st edition – September 2018
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Müller S, Boy S, Day TA, Magliocca K, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Oral Cavity Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-19-4.
Read more on the Carcinomas of the oral cavity dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of oral cavity carcinomas: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the International Collaboration of Cancer Reporting . Müller S, Boy SC, Day TA, Magliocca KR, Richardson MS, Sloan P, Tilakaratne WM, Zain RB, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 Apr;143(4):439-446. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0411-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30.

## Expert Committee

The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the oral cavity was developed by the following international team: Chair – Susan Müller, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Terry Day, USA Christopher Griffith, USA Kelly Magliocca, USA Taisuke Mori, Japan Mary Richardson, USA Philip Sloan, UK WM Tilakaratne, Sri Lanka Rosnah Zain, Malaysia Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the oral cavity was developed by the following international team:
Chair – Susan Müller, USA Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Chair – Susan Müller, USA
Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA
ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Terry Day, USA Christopher Griffith, USA Kelly Magliocca, USA Taisuke Mori, Japan Mary Richardson, USA Philip Sloan, UK WM Tilakaratne, Sri Lanka Rosnah Zain, Malaysia
Christopher Griffith, USA
WM Tilakaratne, Sri Lanka
Rosnah Zain, Malaysia
Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858 ©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858

## Contact

E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858
E admin@iccr-cancer.org
©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
This website requires Javascript for optimum viewing purposes. Please enable javascript in your browser.
It appears you're using an old version of Internet Explorer for safer and optimum browsing experience please upgrade your browser.

