# Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands

**Source:** https://www.iccr-cancer.org/datasets/published-datasets/head-neck/salivary-glands/

**Downloads:**
- [ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Bookmarked guide- 6703 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/ICCR-Salivary-Glands-2nd-ed-v2.0-Bookmarked.pdf)
- [ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Hyperlinked guide- 3325 KB](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/ICCR-Salivary-Glands-2nd-ed-v2.0-hyperlinked.pdf)
- [1st edition](https://www.iccr-cancer.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/ICCR-Salivary-Glands-v1-Bookmarked.pdf)

---

## Overview

Datasets Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands

## Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands

Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Scope The dataset has been developed for the reporting of primary cancer resection and biopsy specimens of malignancies arising from the major salivary glands (parotid, submandibular and sublingual glands). For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. Melanomas, lymphomas, and sarcomas are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Minor salivary gland malignancies arising in the oral cavity, nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, larynx, hypopharynx, trachea, nasopharynx, oropharynx, gnathic bones, and ear-temporal bone specimens are staged according to their anatomical sub-site and are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Minor salivary gland tumours are rare with insufficient quality evidence currently to support a separate dataset, recognising this is a limitation. Further, the ICCR follows Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) guidance for staging, and the major salivary gland system is not applicable to minor salivary glands. The notes on histological typing and grading in this dataset may be used to inform reporting of minor salivary gland malignancies. In addition, neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. For bilateral tumours, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour. ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Bookmarked guide - 6703 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Hyperlinked guide - 3325 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Dataset in Word - 2967 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Bishop JA, Hyrcza MD, Ihrler S, Leivo I, Nagao T, Rupp NJ, Skalova A, Stenman G, Vander Poorten V, van Herpen C, Helliwell T (2024). Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-51-1. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Seethala RR, Altemani A, Ferris RL, Fonseca I, Gnepp DR, Ha P, Nagao T, Skalova A, Stenman G, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-21-7. Read more on the Carcinomas of the major salivary glands dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of carcinomas of the major salivary glands: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the international collaboration on cancer reporting (ICCR) . Seethala RR, Altemani A, Ferris RL, Fonseca I, Gnepp DR, Ha P, Nagao T, Skalova A, Stenman G, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):578-586. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0422-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. ​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the major salivary glands was developed by the following international team: Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Justin Bishop, USA Martin Hyrcza, Canada Stefan Ihrler, Germany Ilmo Leivo, Finland Toshitaka Nagao, Japan Niels Rupp, Switzerland Alena Skalova, Czech Republic Göran Stenman, Sweden Vincent Vander Poorten, Belgium Carla van Herpen, The Netherlands Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Datasets > Published Datasets > Head and Neck > Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands
Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands

## Scope

The dataset has been developed for the reporting of primary cancer resection and biopsy specimens of malignancies arising from the major salivary glands (parotid, submandibular and sublingual glands). For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. Melanomas, lymphomas, and sarcomas are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Minor salivary gland malignancies arising in the oral cavity, nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, larynx, hypopharynx, trachea, nasopharynx, oropharynx, gnathic bones, and ear-temporal bone specimens are staged according to their anatomical sub-site and are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Minor salivary gland tumours are rare with insufficient quality evidence currently to support a separate dataset, recognising this is a limitation. Further, the ICCR follows Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) guidance for staging, and the major salivary gland system is not applicable to minor salivary glands. The notes on histological typing and grading in this dataset may be used to inform reporting of minor salivary gland malignancies. In addition, neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable. For bilateral tumours, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour.
The dataset has been developed for the reporting of primary cancer resection and biopsy specimens of malignancies arising from the major salivary glands (parotid, submandibular and sublingual glands). For resections of recurrent disease, the reporting guide may be used pragmatically although some data elements may be not applicable nor assessable. Melanomas, lymphomas, and sarcomas are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Minor salivary gland malignancies arising in the oral cavity, nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses, larynx, hypopharynx, trachea, nasopharynx, oropharynx, gnathic bones, and ear-temporal bone specimens are staged according to their anatomical sub-site and are dealt with in separate ICCR datasets. Minor salivary gland tumours are rare with insufficient quality evidence currently to support a separate dataset, recognising this is a limitation. Further, the ICCR follows Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) guidance for staging, and the major salivary gland system is not applicable to minor salivary glands. The notes on histological typing and grading in this dataset may be used to inform reporting of minor salivary gland malignancies. In addition, neck dissections and nodal excisions are dealt with in a separate dataset, and this dataset should be used in conjunction, where applicable.
For bilateral tumours, a separate dataset should be completed for each tumour.
ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Bookmarked guide - 6703 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Hyperlinked guide - 3325 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Dataset in Word - 2967 KB Publication History These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Bishop JA, Hyrcza MD, Ihrler S, Leivo I, Nagao T, Rupp NJ, Skalova A, Stenman G, Vander Poorten V, van Herpen C, Helliwell T (2024). Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-51-1. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Seethala RR, Altemani A, Ferris RL, Fonseca I, Gnepp DR, Ha P, Nagao T, Skalova A, Stenman G, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-21-7. Read more on the Carcinomas of the major salivary glands dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of carcinomas of the major salivary glands: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the international collaboration on cancer reporting (ICCR) . Seethala RR, Altemani A, Ferris RL, Fonseca I, Gnepp DR, Ha P, Nagao T, Skalova A, Stenman G, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):578-586. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0422-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. ​ Expert Committee The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the major salivary glands was developed by the following international team: Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Justin Bishop, USA Martin Hyrcza, Canada Stefan Ihrler, Germany Ilmo Leivo, Finland Toshitaka Nagao, Japan Niels Rupp, Switzerland Alena Skalova, Czech Republic Göran Stenman, Sweden Vincent Vander Poorten, Belgium Carla van Herpen, The Netherlands Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Bookmarked guide - 6703 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Hyperlinked guide - 3325 KB ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Dataset in Word - 2967 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Bookmarked guide - 6703 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Hyperlinked guide - 3325 KB
ICCR Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Dataset in Word - 2967 KB

## Publication History

These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP). 2nd edition – July 2024 Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. SUMMARY OF CHANGES • Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition. To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Bishop JA, Hyrcza MD, Ihrler S, Leivo I, Nagao T, Rupp NJ, Skalova A, Stenman G, Vander Poorten V, van Herpen C, Helliwell T (2024). Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-51-1. 1st edition – September 2018 To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Seethala RR, Altemani A, Ferris RL, Fonseca I, Gnepp DR, Ha P, Nagao T, Skalova A, Stenman G, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-21-7. Read more on the Carcinomas of the major salivary glands dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of carcinomas of the major salivary glands: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the international collaboration on cancer reporting (ICCR) . Seethala RR, Altemani A, Ferris RL, Fonseca I, Gnepp DR, Ha P, Nagao T, Skalova A, Stenman G, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):578-586. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0422-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. ​
These datasets were developed with the kind support of the North American Society of Head and Neck Pathology (NASHNP), American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (AAOMP), International Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathologists (IAOP), and British Society for Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology (BSOMP).
2nd edition – July 2024
Updated following the publication of the 2024 World Health Organization (WHO) Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
• Revised guide to harmonise with ICCR style for element titles and value list. • Revised scope for clarity and to harmonise with ICCR style. • Added a new element ‘Clinical information’. • Updated the ‘Specimen(s) submitted’ element. • Updated the ‘Tumour site’ element. • Added a separate element ‘Tumour laterality’. • Added a new element ‘Block identification key’. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour type’ element. • Updated the ‘Histological tumour grade’ element. • Updated the ‘Extent of invasion’ element. • Updated the ‘Coexistent pathology’ element. • Updated the ‘Ancillary studies’ element. • Other minor updates to elements were also included. • Revised all notes, including incorporation of the most recent 2024 WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, 5th edition.
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Thompson LDR, Bishop JA, Hyrcza MD, Ihrler S, Leivo I, Nagao T, Rupp NJ, Skalova A, Stenman G, Vander Poorten V, van Herpen C, Helliwell T (2024). Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Histopathology Reporting Guide. 2nd edition . International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-922324-51-1.
1st edition – September 2018
To reference this dataset please use the following citation: Seethala RR, Altemani A, Ferris RL, Fonseca I, Gnepp DR, Ha P, Nagao T, Skalova A, Stenman G, Thompson LDR (2018). Carcinomas of the Major Salivary Glands Histopathology Reporting Guide. 1st edition. International Collaboration on Cancer Reporting; Sydney, Australia. ISBN: 978-1-925687-21-7.
Read more on the Carcinomas of the major salivary glands dataset from the journal article written by the dataset authors: Data set for the reporting of carcinomas of the major salivary glands: Explanations and recommendations of the guidelines from the international collaboration on cancer reporting (ICCR) . Seethala RR, Altemani A, Ferris RL, Fonseca I, Gnepp DR, Ha P, Nagao T, Skalova A, Stenman G, Thompson LDR. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2019 May;143(5):578-586. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0422-SA. Epub 2018 Nov 30. ​

## Expert Committee

The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the major salivary glands was developed by the following international team: Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK Domain experts: Justin Bishop, USA Martin Hyrcza, Canada Stefan Ihrler, Germany Ilmo Leivo, Finland Toshitaka Nagao, Japan Niels Rupp, Switzerland Alena Skalova, Czech Republic Göran Stenman, Sweden Vincent Vander Poorten, Belgium Carla van Herpen, The Netherlands Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
The 2nd edition of the dataset for Carcinomas of the major salivary glands was developed by the following international team:
Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Chair and Series Champion – Lester Thompson, USA
ICCR representative – Tim Helliwell, UK
Justin Bishop, USA Martin Hyrcza, Canada Stefan Ihrler, Germany Ilmo Leivo, Finland Toshitaka Nagao, Japan Niels Rupp, Switzerland Alena Skalova, Czech Republic Göran Stenman, Sweden Vincent Vander Poorten, Belgium Carla van Herpen, The Netherlands
Martin Hyrcza, Canada
Stefan Ihrler, Germany
Toshitaka Nagao, Japan
Niels Rupp, Switzerland
Alena Skalova, Czech Republic
Göran Stenman, Sweden
Vincent Vander Poorten, Belgium
Carla van Herpen, The Netherlands
Authors of the previous edition of this dataset are available here .
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858 ©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
Contact E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858

## Contact

E admin@iccr-cancer.org P +61 2 8356 5858
E admin@iccr-cancer.org
©2026 ICCR | ABN: 69 601 723 960
This website requires Javascript for optimum viewing purposes. Please enable javascript in your browser.
It appears you're using an old version of Internet Explorer for safer and optimum browsing experience please upgrade your browser.

